Bar Charts :
1. Simple
2. Stacked
3. Side by Side
This chart is useful to show measure vales across a dimension using height or width of bars

Line chart-
1. Discrete
2. Continuous
This chart is used to view value of a measure over time period like week, day, month, quarter or year.

Stacked barcharts have 2 types:
100%


For stacked barcharts, the dimension with the lower no of items gets put as the color
For side by side egraphs the dimension counts get multiplied, so it is not suitable for dimensions that have a large count.


Line Chart:
1. Discrete
2. Continuous
Line charts are used for time series analysis

This chart is useful to view value of a measure over time period like week, day, month, quarter or year.

Roll Up -> Goin up from detail to summary

Example-
Daily data for the year -> Weekly data summary -> Monthly data summary -> Quarterly -> Yearly
Reverse is known as Drill down i.e., going from Yearly data summary to Daily


Continuous - The line continues without any breaks. Showed in green color
Discrete - Discrete values, i., lines get cut off(broken). Lines are showed in blue color.

Rule #1
To make a line chart we need a Date field

Rule #2
Always put Date field in column and put the measure in rows i.e., the graph should be horizontal

Step Line Chat : You can see the steps and see how much change in value happens, either up or down

In columns for Line chart the first set of date values in the drop down is for discrete values while the second set is for continuous values


Area Chart = Line charts with area shaded

Side by Side Circle charts - Not frequently used

Heat Map \
          |--Not Frequently Used
Tree Map /

Heat map represents each value with a rectangle and the size of the rectangle is directly proportional to the value.
It is used for 2 dimensional analysis.


Tree maps are similar, as in each value is represented with a rectangle - except its used for 1 dimension
We can use related dimensions to create groups, i.e., If we use parent-chile dimensions like Category and Sub-Category then
Category becomes the grouping factor for sub-category

Tree maps cant handle negetive values, heat maps however can show

Tree maps cannot be sorted at all while Heat maps can be sorted in any order

The rectangles in tree maps are placed close to each other while in heat maps there is a clear gap between each

In case of HEatmaps : Avoid Labels

13,4,6,6,6

Histogram : Used to do freq distribution and check for normal distribution of values